Now, such that we have created everything about the Apple Entertainment, now we are going to see what
is going to be inside the game over, very.
So we have created a strange message for the game over one thing and the whole style of the game over
text is going to be like this sensitive ball and the font size is going to be 40 now.
The font matrix is going to be a special font like this.
This is a ball and style first showing game over text.
Now that text color is going to be white and we have both said the font for the game over text.
We have to draw a string which shows that the window is going to be the full size of the page length.
The text is going to be displayed in the middle of the page, and this is done with the help of this
thing.
Three hundred minus matrix string with like the very tough and the heart involved.
So half of the way and half of the hype, this is going to be in the middle of the page.
So we have successfully created the game over window.
Now let us switch to check the conditions for the collision, like the collision side to it, as we
already discussed the body of the snake itself and the walls of this game.
So let me first create our function.
Public void collision form checking the collision point.
So yes, we have created it now, brackets and inside this, we have to use a for loop for checking
that whether the coordinates of the ball and the snake are seen or the snakes dot one dot another,
dot has the same coordinates.
Then this thing going to happen, then the human or one and a pop up will appear that the game is over,
like the pop up since you are done.
Now you can continue, which is very disheartening, I think.
Like, we never want our games to be all we want to play multiple times without getting the snake die.
So inside, if I am going to check if that is greater than for.
An ex of the snake and the obstacle is same.
So double is equal to and then x z, the z is for the snake and the always for the snake.
And that is for the object.
So if Z is greater than four and and operator.
And X Zero is equal to is equal to double x z, and similarly for the Y coordinate and Operator Y zero
is equal double equals.
Y Z.
Yes.
So this is like something no bracket closed.
And what this event and so the endgame, like I have already said, the endgame is do not denoting the
game is on.
So if I am setting the game is going to false.
Obviously, the game is going to be over now.
So this is the first possibility of checking the collision, like if the snake hits itself, then the
game is going to be over.
The second possibility is that the snake hit one of the four walls.
And again, the game will be over.
So if lives are like, if the y coordinate of snake becomes greater than all equal to three hundred
like this is three hundred and this is zero zero, this is zero three hundred.
This is three hundred comma zero and this is field.
So the coordinates are like this.
So if the Y coordinate becomes greater than three hundred.
Similarly, if the X coordinate becomes greater than three hundred and if the icon becomes less than
zero, like there are four walls one in the origin side and one in the 300 side, and also the X coordinate
becomes less than.
Zero.
Yes.
So all the four walls are set to this, and these are the conditions which set in game for us, like
the game is on two falls and the game will be over if not in game.
Then the timer is stop.
So if the game is over, then the timer will stop automatically like the snake will stop moving and
the game or a window will pop up.
So yes, there are five cases girl total six kids discovered inside this jet collision like four snake
hitting itself.
Any of the four walls.
And if these five cases upwards, then the Indian Council and the family will stop automatically.
So we have covered this part.
Also now move to the next part now coming to the prototype like the main family of design.
What we have got our bill now, so we have covered seven things like we have created the project design
and nothing place the images inside these images one way or another.
We have located that one.
We have also created a function for collisions, checking the collisions.
So these two are also completed.
So now what's left?
So implementation of the keyboard?
So now we will jump this directly now in order to clear the keyboard functionalities, which will make
the snake move.
We have to create the class for that be an adapter is the name of the class, and we will extend this
to a component of the next string, which is called gear adapter.
And.
So, yes, we have extended extends key adapter inside this, we will create a public void, key public
void gave breast.
Which will recognize that the key blessed breast like and creating events as document, which says.
And the event is e suppose.
And inside this event, we are going to create the integer key which like calls the method, get the
key.
Code, so the code of the key matches being pressed.
Now, so that we have created this function now, we will check using if that.
The valuable key.
Is a key event and the key event says.
Like the Chiriches is, is the lefty.
So the writer does make you laugh, underscore live.
And this check, if the key pressed, is the left side key and not visible to the right direction?
Right direction.
Off the plane after completing this.
So we have our extra bracket.
And so this is going to check that if we have pressed that we get less and not the right direction.
So it was said that left direction to through.
So let us first go to these variables as the global variables above have.
So below this, I am going to create a private Boolean for less direction, said to us false.
Similarly, for the right direction, again setting is the false and further up and down as well.
So we are done with three.
One more tool and that is down direction.
Initially, everything is set to false.
So we have created all of the global variables.
Also, we have one more bullion ready to roll.
We have to face data to the code will look nice.
So if endgame is true.
So all the Boolean variables at one place now moving towards the keyboard functionality.
Now, after checking that information for the left breast, we have to set the left direction as to.
And this makes low left mode and the other two as false.
Now up and down as force, we have already checked it for the right, be above head, not right direction,
which automatically denotes that our direction is false.
We do not have to bother writing a test.
We have already set a little false.
Now, if he went for, lefties said, now we have to copy and paste it four more times for all the full
keyboard keys, which we are going to use.
So pasting it four more times for the right left hand up and down, right hand writing left.
Similarly, like we have right noted for the left key, it is caps lock right?
And for Upper.
Moving towards the up key.
And we have to set not further down detection.
We will change this in some time after completing this part.
So, yes, we are done with all the years and her writing up.
So this is for right.
So we have to say the right direction, as do we really need this?
OK, so here we have up, and here we have down.
That image, we have the best in this place.
So having said that, our direction as to now head the direction and direction so official and down
is false.
So we have to set that up, though true.
And we have two pairs left in the right direction is false.
So just changing it this way.
I'm pasting the whole thing has.
Just we have to change this week now.
Yes, don't.
So we are done with all the keyboard functionality, like we have functions for all the four keys.
If we are going to press any of the four, there is action which will be listen after the press.
So by far, we have covered every section of the main game section aspect of thus naked self.
So now we are going to cover it how the new function will work, like how the snake will move in the
next bag and we will see that how the images are hiding behind the tail of the snake after everything
that happens and that is the application of this process.
So yes, like all the functions are covered now in the next part, we are going to create a more function.
See you in the next part.